Wiki/4.Deploy-To-GKE.md, before:

```
 $ export PROJECT_ID=iron-entropy-285002
```

```
 $ export ACCOUNT_NAME=kubernetes-service-account
```

### [Install Gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstarts)

### Authentication to GCR
```
 $ gcloud auth login
```

```
 $ gcloud iam service-accounts keys create --iam-account $ACCOUNT_EMAIL key.json
```

```
 $ kubectl create secret docker-registry us.gcr-io --docker-server us.gcr.io --docker-username _json_key --docker-email not@val.id --docker-password="$(cat ./key.json)"
```

```
 $ kubectl patch serviceaccount default -p '{"imagePullSecrets": [{"name": "us-gcr-io"}]}'
```

```
 $ gcloud container clusters get-credentials <cluster-name> 
```

### Install nginx ingress
- [Install helm](https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-the-kubernetes-package-manager-helm/)
- Install nginx

```
$ helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx
```

```
$ helm install nginx-ingress ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx
```

### Push and Pull images to GCR

  ```
  $ gcloud auth configure-docker
  ```

  ```
  $ docker tag us.gcr.io/iron-entropy-285002/image-name:image-tag
  ```

  ```
  $ docker push us.gcr.io/iron-entropy-285002/image-name:image-tag
  ```

  ```
  $ gcloud container images list
  ```

### Deploy

```
 $ kubectl apply -f deploy-backend.yaml
```

```
 $ kubectl apply -f deploy-frontend.yaml
```


### Delete

```
 $ kubectl delete -f deploy-backend.yaml
```

```
 $ kubectl delete -f deploy-frontend.yaml
```

Commit message:

ignore .env files and use enviroment variables in the kubernetes cluster's secret

Wiki/4.Deploy-To-GKE.md, after:

```
 $ export PROJECT_ID=iron-entropy-285002
```

```
 $ export ACCOUNT_NAME=kubernetes-service-account
```

### [Install Gcloud](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/docs/quickstarts)

### Authentication to GCR
```
 $ gcloud auth login
```

```
 $ gcloud iam service-accounts keys create --iam-account $ACCOUNT_EMAIL key.json
```

```
 $ kubectl create secret docker-registry us.gcr-io --docker-server us.gcr.io --docker-username _json_key --docker-email not@val.id --docker-password="$(cat ./key.json)"
```

```
 $ kubectl patch serviceaccount default -p '{"imagePullSecrets": [{"name": "us-gcr-io"}]}'
```

```
 $ gcloud container clusters get-credentials <cluster-name> 
```

### Install nginx ingress
- [Install helm](https://www.techrepublic.com/article/how-to-install-the-kubernetes-package-manager-helm/)
- Install nginx

```
$ helm repo add ingress-nginx https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx
```

```
$ helm install nginx-ingress ingress-nginx/ingress-nginx
```

### Setup secrets
- backend
```
$ kubectl create secret generic backend-secret \
  --from-literal=fb_private_key_id=<PRIVATE_KEY_ID> \
  --from-literal=fb_private_key=<PRIVATE_KEY> \
  --from-literal=fb_client_id=<CLIENT_ID> \
  --from-literal=db_username=<DATABASE_USERNAME> \
  --from-literal=db_name=<DATABASE_NAME> \
  --from-literal=db_password=<DATABASE_PASS> \
  --from-literal=stripe_secret_key=<STRIPE_SECRET_KEY>
```

- frontend
```
$ kubectl create secret generic frontend-secret \
  --from-literal=fb_api_key=<REACT_APP_API_KEY> \
  --from-literal=fb_project_id=<REACT_APP_PROJECT_ID> \
  --from-literal=fb_sender_id=<REACT_APP_MESSAGING_SENDER_ID> \
  --from-literal=fb_app_id=<REACT_APP_APP_ID> \
  --from-literal=fb_measurement_id=<REACT_APP_MEASUREMENT_ID> \
  --from-literal=react_env=<REACT_ENV>
```

### Push and Pull images to GCR

  ```
  $ gcloud auth configure-docker
  ```

  ```
  $ docker tag us.gcr.io/iron-entropy-285002/image-name:image-tag
  ```

  ```
  $ docker push us.gcr.io/iron-entropy-285002/image-name:image-tag
  ```

  ```
  $ gcloud container images list
  ```

### Deploy

```
 $ kubectl apply -f deploy-backend.yaml
```

```
 $ kubectl apply -f deploy-frontend.yaml
```


### Delete

```
 $ kubectl delete -f deploy-backend.yaml
```

```
 $ kubectl delete -f deploy-frontend.yaml
```
